#MovieSpin

#####MovieSpin is a simple film recommender built with the Java-based Play framework. Our goal was a proof-of-concept that could query a real database and provide results back to a user in a clean and elegant format. Our application stores user sessions that keep track of movies and actors that users like or dislike. Users have the ability to save their progress, log out, and then log back into the application at a later point in time to continue searching for new movies to watch. Upon logging into the program, a user can choose to generate more movie recommendations or take a look at previously made recommendations. Through the previously made recommendations page, a user can get more information about an actor or movie, specifically the popularity index as generated by The Movie Database. Our application assumes an API interface that provides an id and title for each actor and movie along with a popularity rating and URL to an image representing the particular actor or movie.


*Database schema*

* actor: contains information about unique actors
    * id: unique database id of the actor
    * name: the name of the actor
    * popularity: the popularity index of the actor
    * image_path: a path to an image of the actor
    * adult: true if the actor is involved in adult film, false otherwise
* movie: contains information about unique movies
    * id: unique database id of the movie
    * title: the title of the movie
    * release_date: the movie’s original release date
    * poster_path: a path to an image of the movie’s poster
    * adult: true if the movie is an adult film, false otherwise
* movie_cast: models relationships between actors and movies with a many-to-one relationship
    * actor_id: the id of the corresponding actor
    * movie_id: the id of the correspoding movie
* movie_user: contains all the information for the application’s users
    * email: the user’s email
    * name: the user’s name
    * password: the user’s password
* user_favorite_actor: models relationships between users and actors, representing actors that user’s have “liked”
    * user_email: the corresponding user’s email
    * actor_id: the corresponding actor’s id
* user_favorite_movie: models relationships between users and movies, representing movies that have user’s have “liked”
    * user_email: the corresponding user’s email
    * movie_id: the corresponding movie’s id

###Build instructions

Clone the repository down onto your machine. You will need to create your own application.conf file according to Play standards and configure a Postgres database that mirrors the name and credentials in the application.conf file. The application can then be run with ```sudo ./activator``` and then with ```run``` when prompted by the activator. No further access is needed after database creation; if the populateDatabase() method is un-commented in Global.onStart(), the database will automatically populate when the app is run.